# Title

WoCCode: Peer mentoring for the Women of Color coding community

## Summary 

Women of Color (WoC) -- which includes Black, indigenous, and Latinx
minorities -- are the most underrepresented demographic from high
paying industries, including software engineering. Yet WoC are flush
with the talent, creativity, and social insight to solve complex
problems and lead in the software industry. This program seeks to
unite WoC and other members of minoritized groups, to battle feelings
of isolation and marginalization that are prevalent in educational
institutions and industry settings. Using a dedicated Slack space and
cohorts of 4-5 people, we will create a peer mentoring network for WoC
and members of other minoritized groups to engage, receive feedback,
and troubleshoot issues around their participation in open source
software communities, including Astropy.

## Team 

Program Lead: Lia Corrales (@eblur)

Program Mentors and Slack moderators:
* Lia Corrales
* Kelle Cruz
* TBD (invited Camille Avestruz)

Anticipated 2020 cohort: 20 people from underrepresented groups in the
United States (Black, indigenous, disabled, and gender-minority
coders) or other underrepresented groups from the national stage (see
Plan). We are open to any career stage, from undergraduate to research
professionals.

Guest webinar speakers: 6 industry or research professionals

## Plan

We will solicit applications to join the program via Twitter, AAS
CSMA, and by emails to academic department chairs. We will accept
applications from anyone, and will select a cohort in a way that
prioritizes most marginalized demographics.

We operate under the principle that supporting the most marginalized
in our communities supports the well-being of all members of the
Astropy community. While the Astropy project has shown considerable
diversity in its international demographics, the majority of non-US
participants are still overwhelmingly European (white), male, and from
privileged classes. This program seeks to engage with people from
groups that are marginalized in the United States, the Global South
(Central America, Latin America, Africa, and less-privileged classes
of Southeast Asia), or Global North (European, Northern Asia,
Australian) members from marginalized demographics such as being
indigenous, non-binary or queer, and disabled.

We aim for 20 participants, to be separated into cohorts of 4-5 people
with similar interests.

Participants will be connected via Slack, with one channel for each
cohort and a general chat channel. Slack moderators will be assigned
to moderate cohort chat spaces to help answer technical questions
regarding code. Each cohort is expected to hold regular meetings, 2-4
times per month, for peer-mentoring. (These sessions should be
independent of Slack and will not include the Slack moderator assigned
to them.)

There will be one webinar scheduled per month. Similar to "code
coffee" chats organized by the Program Lead at MIT, partipants will
present a new tool, piece of code, or professional development
practice. The webinars will toggle between peer-led webinars and a
guest speaker from outside the program. Guest speakers will be
professionals from underrepresented backgrounds, in either the
software industry or academia.

Some examples of guest speakers from underrepresented groups, who will
be invited to give a webinar, are:
* Nicholas Hunt-Walker (Senior Software Engineer at Verica)
* Duane Lee (Customer Support Engineer at Starburst Data)
* Rudolfo Montez (Data Carpentry instructor)

## Impact

Through peer mentoring, we will create a safe space for participants
to experiment with their code and to engage in open software
practices. They will be introduced to coding practices and
professional development during the monthly webinars. Additionally,
they will learn the stories of the guest speakers who are members of
minoritized groups that have created spaces for themselves in industry
and research, and could also serve as role models for participants in
earlier career stages. This all serves to equip participants with the
foundational skills and social network to function in majority-white
open source software spaces, giving them the opportunity to contribute
more effectively to the Astropy code base and community.


## Budget

Slack moderators will receive an honorarium of $500, for their work in
moderating the Slack forums, answering questions, and arranging for
guest speakers.

It has been well documented that members of underrepresented groups
typically earn less money than white and cis-male counterparts with
similar employment. Hispanic women receive on average 54 cents per
dollar earned by white men, Black women receive 62 cents per dollar,
and white women receive 79 cents per dollar ([click here for
source](https://www.nationalpartnership.org/our-work/resources/economic-justice/fair-pay/quantifying-americas-gender-wage-gap.pdf)). As
such, monetary compensation is one of the most important ways to
support underrepresented groups in our fields. For engagement in the
program, participants will receive a $200 honorarium.

Guest speakers will receive compensation of $300 for a one-hour
webinar given to the program participants. This is based on the
industry standard of $150 per hour compensation, anticipating a total
of two hours for preparing and giving the webinar talk.

We also request $2000 in discretionary funds. This money will be used
to pay additional speakers, moderators, or program participants. This
need arises from the simple fact that we may find more than 20
participants from ideal situations, or if we need more moderators. We
also wish to dedicate the discretionary funds towards advertising the
program, or for supporting a participant who may be in need. The funds
could be used, for example, to support a participant's travel (or
remote conference registration fee) to present work related to the
WoCCode program.

Budget outline:
* $200 x 20 = $2,400 in participant honorariums
* $500 x 3 = $1,500 in Slack moderator honorariums
* $300 x 6 = $1,800 in guest webinar speaker compensation
* $2,000 in discretionary funds
* Total request: $7,700