# Result

Project was approved for $15,000 of funding.

# Proposal

## Astropy Maintainer Mentoring Program Proposal

### Project team

The grant will go to [Aperio Software Ltd.](https://aperiosoftware.com), and the
following people will be working on the project:

* Thomas Robitaille - Coordination committee member and astropy core maintainer.
* Stuart Mumford - astropy.visualization and infrastructure maintainer.
* Heather Mumford - Learning and Development professional with extensive
  experience in developing and delivering coaching and mentoring programmes.

We believe that this team encompasses both the knowledge of mentoring programs
in general as well as the specific needs of the Astropy community to develop an
effective maintainer mentoring program.

## Project Summary

This project is to set up a lightweight (as in easy to run and maintain) but
formal mentoring program to encourage, recruit, and train both new maintainers
for the astropy core and coordinated packages, as well as people into other
roles.

There are two primary goals for the mentoring scheme:
1. To increase the number of people in maintainer and other roles in the Astropy
   community.
2. To provide a more structured way to facilitate succession of people into
   vacant roles.

This will reduce the projects reliance on the current small number of people in
critical roles. This mentoring program is *not* aiming to recruit more
contributors at this time.

### Project Work Plan

This project is split into three phases. At each phase we will actively solicit
feedback from the Astropy community to continually improve the program.

#### Phase 1: Design Program and Produce Documentation

In this phase we will design the program and develop all the documentation
needed for all participants, this will include:
  * Introduction to the program, including its scope and goals.
  * Requirements for mentors and mentees: what makes a good mentor/mentee, what
    is expected of program participants.
  * A mentor handbook containing all the information needed to help a mentor
    through the program.
  * A mentee handbook containing all the information needed to help a mentee
    through the program.
  * Guidelines for mentors on when their mentees might be ready to "graduate" to
    a maintainer role.
  * Guidelines for when mentees might exit the program without "graduating" to a
    maintainer role.

#### Phase 2: Implement and Run the Mentor Program for the first year

In this phase, the program will be run and coordinated for one year.

Running the programme for the first year will involve:

  * Identify suitable mentors based on criteria developed in phase 1.
  * Work with the wider Astropy community to identify potential mentees, based
    on criteria developed in phase 1.
  * Train mentors and mentees on what good mentoring relationships look like and
    what is expected of them.
  * Pair mentors and mentees, considering time-zones, personalities, and support
    required.
  * Monitor progress through evaluations and check-ins.
  * Graduate mentees into suitable Astropy roles as and when appropriate.

The program for the first year will be administered using the minimal amount of
new technology possible (instead relying on existing solutions), with the focus
on learning what works for the Astropy community and what can be improved and
automated in the future.

#### Phase 3: Review and Improvements

Towards the end of the first year of running the program a review of how well
the program has achieved its objectives will be performed in collaboration with
the participants from the first year and the wider community.

It is expected that any significant changes to the program of development of
software to help with administering the program would form part of a new
proposal in the next cycle for evaluation by the community.

### Budget

The total budget request is for $15k, which is for 100 hours of contractor work
at $150 per hour, split up as 3 days of work (24 hours) each for phases one and
three and one hour a week for phase 2 (52 hours).
